# CS255---8-2-Journal-Portfolio-Submission

This is my repository for module eight's journal submission.

## Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
The DriverPass project involved designing a system for a client who required a comprehensive solution for managing driver education and testing services.  The client, DriverPass, wanted a system that could facilitate online driver education courses, scheduling for driving tests, management of student progress and certifications, different levels of user clearance and access, and libraries of local DMV rulesets.  The main goal was to create an efficient and user-friendly web-based platform that could streamline the entire process of learning to drive and obtaining a driver's license.  

## What did you do particularly well?
In my humble opinion, I believed I did particularly well in designing the UML diagrams for DriverPass's system.  Throughout this course, we were tasked with analyzing and breaking down UML diagrams such as object, sequence, activity, and use case.  learning these diagrams helped in my execution creating the diagrams for the client, DriverPass.  The only diagram I personally felt needed more attention, as it was not up to the standards of the other diagrams, was the use case diagram.

## If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
Continuing further on the use case diagram, I believe this diagram was the worst one out of all of them, as I believe that I did not highlight each use case in the system DriverPass wanted.  I would improve upon this diagram by exploring more of the relationships between use cases.  For example, one use case relationship I failed to include was how register extends to enroll in courses.  An example of use cases I failed to include are oversee system operations for admins, update course material for admins, and receive certifications for students.  Overall, I think this diagram lacked the most compared to the others.  I think the others are really good, but this one fell well below the standard of quality I have.

## How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
When I gathered user needs, I analyzed the interviews throughout the assignment and made a list of system functionality DriverPass wanted.  When I finished looking through the interview, I used this requirement list when creating my diagrams throughout the course.  These diagrams use the requirement list and interpret how likely a user interaction is going to take place.  For example, admins having access to overall system functionality is not a specific requirement listed off in the interview, but it can be assumed upon deployment of the product, DriverPass would like for their admins to have control over system operations.  Fulfilling the requirements also helped me consider the end-user experience.  It is important to acknowledge this, because meeting user needs directly impacts user satisfaction, which is crucial for the system's success and adoption.  The system is designed with user needs in mind is more intuitive and easier to use, reducing the learning curve and increasing efficiency.  This is why DriverPass requested the system be web-based, as it allows any platform to access the system.  When focusing on what users need, the system provides relevant and valuable functionalities, ensuring it solves real problems and enhances user productivity.  Finally, user experience will set DriverPass apart from any potential competitors.

## How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
When I design software, regardless of whether it's meant for school, work, or personal projects, I also begin by creating the goal of the software and what requirements it needs to fulfill in order to achieve the goal.  A common strategy I use it making a bullet pointed list of the functionality and then make an activity diagram that shows how the program will meet all the requirements and functionalities.  In the future, I believe it would be beneficial to build upon my process by including more UML diagrams such as use case and sequence diagram to help illustrate the functionality better.
